The Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma 
         Procurement Department 

REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL 

IT Hoshonti Program Projects 
F o r  
THE CHOCTAW NATION OF OKLAHOMA 

RFP ISSUE DATE: 08/10/2023 
RFP NO: 08102023 EMIHPP 
DUE DATE/TIME: 08/30/2023; 5 PM CST 

Proposals must be received by the Due Date/Time to be eligible for consideration.

RFP: 08102023 EMIHPP 

Page 1 of 21 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents 

THE CHOCTAW NATION OF OKLAHOMA ................................................................... 3 

SECTION 1 - RFP PURPOSE AND BACKGROUND..................................................... 4 

SECTION 2 - INSTRUCTIONS TO BIDDERS ................................................................ 4 

SECTION 3 - BIDDER QUALIFICATIONS ..................................................................... 9 

SECTION 4 - METHOD OF AWARD AND CONTRACT EXECUTION .......................... 9 

SECTION 5 - ADDITIONAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS ............................................ 11 

EXHIBIT SCHEDULE 

EXHIBIT 1 – SCOPE OF WORK .................................................................................. 13 

EXHIBIT 2 – INSURANCE GUIDELINES ..................................................................... 17 

EXHIBIT 3 – CUSTOMER REFERENCES ................................................................... 19 

EXHIBIT 4 – BIDDER CERTIFICATON PAGE ............................................................. 20 

EXHIBIT 5 – ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF SECTION 4 AND 5 ..................................... 21 

ATTACHMENT SCHEDULE 

ATTACHMENT A – BLANK W-9 FORM ..........................................................................  

ATTACHMENT B – OTC TAX EXEMPT LETTER............................................................  

RFP: 08102023 EMIHPP 

Page 2 of 21 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma 

The Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma is a federally recognized Indian tribe which means that 
it  is  recognized  as  a  sovereign  governmental  entity  and  enjoys  the  responsibilities, 
powers, limitations, and obligations attached to such designation.  The Choctaw Nation 
of Oklahoma is governed by an executive branch consisting of the Chief and an Assistant 
Chief,  and  a  legislative  body  consisting  of  a  Tribal  Council  which  is  comprised  of  a 
representative  Councilmember  from  each  of  the  twelve  (12)  districts  of  the  Choctaw 
Nation of Oklahoma.      

Over the years, the Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma has built high profile, world-class 
gaming and hospitality destinations.  But that’s only part of the story.  The Nation 
manages a diverse portfolio of businesses that generate revenue, create jobs and 
develop leaders. Revenues generated by these diverse commercial endeavors provide 
world-class services to Choctaw tribal members. These services are designed to 
increase quality of life, improve available housing, provide educational opportunities, 
offer career opportunities and celebrate the proud culture of the Choctaw Nation.   

The Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma manages a wide array of businesses, providing more 
than 12,000 jobs. Our portfolio includes 20 gaming sites, three resorts, two hotels, the 
highest rated KOA RV site in North America, multiple restaurant franchises, a multi-
million-dollar printing company, 17 travel plazas and a Choctaw Country Market with 
two more opening soon. Additionally, the Nation manages more than a dozen ranches 
and farms, encompassing 65,000 acres. We are actively engaged in managing cattle 
herds and harvesting 130,000 pounds of pecans as well as providing world-class guided 
hunting experiences at the Choctaw Hunting Lodge in the beautiful Ti Valley.  

Headquartered in Durant, Choctaw Nation offers a full-service hospital in Talihina as 
well as a network of medical clinics throughout Choctaw Nation.  

RFP: 08102023 EMIHPP 

Page 3 of 21 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1 - RFP PURPOSE AND BACKGROUND 

1.1  RFP Purpose 

The Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma (the Nation) seeks to identify and select a vendor for 
Information Technology (IT) project staff augmentation specific to Oracle Cloud Fusion 
applications. The Nation reserves the right to engage alternative sources in the event 
the awarded vendor is unable to provide specific resources for this project. 

Section 2 - INSTRUCTIONS TO BIDDERS 

 2.1  Issuing Office and Choctaw Nation 

This RFP is being issued by the Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma (the “Nation”), Procurement 
Department and, as such, is the only office authorized to respond to inquiries, issue an 
addendum, clarify the terms of this RFP, and to award any contract(s) resulting from the 
RFP. 

2.2   Definition of Terms 

  "RFP" or “Request for Proposal” defines the conditions, specifications, definitions, 

questions, and requests outlined in this document. 

  "Bids" or “Proposals” refers to the responses to this RFP from each Vendor. 
  “Agreement"  or  “Contract"  and  similar  expressions  refer  to  an  executed  binding 
legal document that may be negotiated and executed as a result of an award of 
bid resulting from this Request for Proposal. 

  “Point of Contact" refers to the Procurement representative, who is the sole 
contact for all activities relating to this Request for Proposal and any resulting 
bid award. 

  "Bidder" or “Vendor” or “Respondent” refers to a recipient of this RFP who 
acknowledges the receipt and tenders an intention to provide a Proposal. 
  “Evaluation Team” refers to select group of the Nation stakeholders who will 

evaluate Vendor Proposals and select a bid award recipient.  

2.3    Schedule of Events 

Event  

Date  

Description  

Release of RFP  
Vendor Acknowledgment  

08/10/2023   RFP published to selected Vendors.  
08/15/2023   Vendor’s confirmation of receipt of RFP and 

Vendor Inquiries  

Responses to Vendor 
Inquiries  

RFP: 08102023 EMIHPP 

08/10/2023 - 
08/18/2023  

intention to respond to the RFP are due.  
Vendor requests for clarification/additional 
information are due by: 4 PM CST to 
emcdaniel@choctawnation.com  

08/23/2023   Responses to Vendor inquiries are due.  

Page 4 of 21 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Proposals to RFP Due  

Review of Proposals   

Review of Proposals 
Completed  
Internal Budget Review  

RFP Award  

Contract Finalized  
Target Date for Project 
Initiation  
Target Date for Project 
Completion   

08/30/2023   Formal proposals due from Vendors via email to: 
emcdaniel@choctawnation.com no later than:  5 
PM CST   
The Nation Evaluation Team will complete the 
formal review of proposals.  

 08/31/2023 – 
09/12/2023  
09/12/2023   The Nation Evaluation Team will complete the 

formal review of proposals.  
Final review of funding based on proposal 
results.  

09/13/2023 – 
09/19/2023  
09/22/2023   A bid award is anticipated, and contract 

negotiation is initiated.  
10/13/2023   Target date for an executed contract.  
10/30/2023   Target date for project kickoff.  

09/30/2024   Target date for project completion.  

Note: The dates published in the Schedule of Events above are subject to change at 
the option of the Procurement Department. Any modifications will be communicated via 
email to all Respondents. 

2.4  Proposal Submission 

Proposals are to be submitted via email to: emcdaniel@choctawnation.com 

 All email received from Bidders concerning this RFP will be acknowledged. Any Proposal 
that is received after the due date for proposals will be deemed not responsive and will 
not be considered.  

The Nation will not reimburse potential Bidders for any costs associated with preparing 
the vendors response to the RFP or any other costs associated to the RFP. 

2.5  Bidder Inquiries 

Vendors  are  expected  to  exercise  their  best  professional  independent  judgment  in 
analyzing  the  requirements of  this  RFP to ascertain  whether  additional  clarification  is 
necessary or desirable before responding. If there are any discrepancies, omissions or 
questions as to the information provided in the RFP, a request for clarification should be 
submitted via email to the Buyer at the email address below, not later than the deadline 
listed in Paragraph 2.3 - Schedule of Events.  

The  Nation  communications  intended  to  clarify,  interpret  or  correct  the  RFP  will  be 
provided  by  the  point  of  contact.  All  potential  Bidders  will  be  provided  copies  of  all 
communications.  

RFP: 08102023 EMIHPP 

Page 5 of 21 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Point of Contact for administrative, commercial, and technical issues regarding this 
RFP is: 

Erin McDaniel | Buyer 2, Procurement Projects 
580-642-8590 
emcdaniel@choctawnation.com 

NOTE: In the event that an inquiry is received after the submission deadline for inquiries, 
Procurement  Department  will  reserve  the  right  to  determine  whether  the  inquiry  is 
sufficiently  significant  to  deem  an  adjustment  be  made  in  the  RFP  that  could  warrant 
publishing an addendum to the RFP. If this unlikely situation should occur, all prospective 
Bidders will be informed. 

2.6   Restrictions on Communications 

Bidders are not permitted to communicate with the Nation staff regarding this solicitation 
during the period between the Release of RFP date and the RFP Award Date, with the 
following exceptions: 

  Bidder inquiries may be presented per paragraph 2.5 Bidder Inquiries. 
  Communications related to existing account service is necessary and permitted. 
  Communications during the course of a Bidders' conference, if conducted. 
  Oral presentations and site visits, if conducted. 

If a Bidder is found to be in violation of this restriction, the Nation reserves the right 
to reject that Bidder’s proposal without further consideration. 

2.7  Proposal Format and Required Submittals 

Bidders will provide a written Proposal adequate for detailing the full scope of the project 
components. In the event that the formal Proposal is incomplete, the Nation may at its 
sole  discretion,  request  the  Bidder  to  provide  the  missing  information  or  choose  to 
evaluate the Proposal without the missing information. 

2.7.1   Proposal Submission Format 

Proposals  presented  in  response  to  this  RFP,  must  include  all of  the  elements  listed 
below and be clearly indexed and assembled as indicated. 

1.  Table  of  Contents  -  Proposals  must  include  a  table  of  contents  with  page 
numbers  referencing  all  Sections  of  the  Proposal,  including  exhibits  and 
addenda,  with  sufficient  detail  to  facilitate  easy  reference  to  all  requested 
information. 

2.  Executive  Summary  Statement  –  Please  include  in  this  section  a  company 
overview  that  includes  company  name,  address  and  the  name  of  a  primary 
contact person. Additionally, it is important to provide the following information: 

RFP: 08102023 EMIHPP 

Page 6 of 21 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Your experience/expertise be adequately described 
  Provide a statement of qualifications and years of experience with both 

 

public and private sector work 
Include  examples  of  your  abilities  and  expertise  directly  comparable  to 
this project 

  Consider  identifying  unique  experiences,  awards,  services,  etc.  that 

 

distinguish your company from others 
Include  any  other  information  you  deem  relevant  to  this  review,  and  in 
general state simply why your company is the best qualified company for 
this project.  

3.  Detailed  Proposal  –  The  Bidder’s  proposal  must  identify  all  products,  logistics 
plans, and services Bidder proposes to employ to fulfill the stated requirements. 
Proposals must address the proposed solutions in sufficient detail to describe how 
the Bidder’s product or service meets the stated requirements.  

4.  Bid Sheet/Pricing Proposal – Provide complete pricing information, all components 

of the total cost involved should be presented in spreadsheet/table format. 

5.  Signed Proposal Certification – An individual authorized by the Vendor to extend 
a formal, legally binding proposal must certify any proposal in response to this RFP 
by completing EXHIBIT 4 – Bidder Certification Page.  

6.  Method of Award – Sign and enclose EXHIBIT 5 – Acknowledgement of Method 

of Award. 

2.8  Requests for Exceptions 

Request for exceptions to specific requirements of this RFP may be registered with the 
Procurement  Department  prior  to  the  date  provided  in  Paragraph  2.3  –  Schedule  of 
Events. 

  Technical  Exceptions:  The  Bidder  shall  clearly  describe  any  and  all 
deviations in its Proposal from the functional requirements stated in this RFP 
and  also  describe  any  product  enhancements  that  could  be  made  by  the 
Bidder to satisfy the requirements of this RFP. 

  General  Exceptions:  The  Bidder  shall  also  clearly  state  its  objections, 
exceptions, or alternatives to the general (non-technical) requirements stated 
in  this  RFP.  If  the  Bidder  responds  without  noting  general  exceptions,  the 
Proposal will be received with the assumption of no exceptions existing. 

  Bidders are cautioned that if the Nation is unwilling or unable to approve a 
request  for  exception  to  the  RFP  requirements  and  the  Bidder  does  not 
withdraw the request, the proposal will be deemed to be non-responsive and 
ineligible for contract award. 

RFP: 08102023 EMIHPP 

Page 7 of 21 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.9   Proposal Modifications or Withdrawal 

No modification of a submitted Proposal will be permitted. Any existing Proposal must 
be clearly withdrawn and a modified Proposal resubmitted prior to the bid due date/time 
as indicated in Paragraph 2.3 - Schedule of Events. 

2.10  Bidder Representation 

Each Bidder, by submitting a proposal, represents that he/she has: 

  Read and completely understands the RFP and associated documents. 
  Based the proposal upon the requirements described in the RFP. 

2.11  Complete Bids 

All bids must be full and complete at the time of submission. See Paragraph 2.9 - Proposal 
Modifications or Withdrawal. 

2.12   Specifications 

Proposals must meet or exceed the specifications listed in the Exhibits that comprise 
the  Statement(s)  of  Work  for  this  RFP  (See  Exhibits  Schedule).  If  products  and/or 
services are bid and do not comply with specifications as written, Bidder shall attach to 
bid  Proposal  a  complete  detailed  itemization  and  explanation  for  each  and  every 
deviation  or  variation  from these  specifications. Absence  of  any  such  itemization  and 
explanation  shall  be  understood  to  mean  that  Bidder  proposed  to  meet  all  details  of 
these specifications.  

The  successful  Bidder  delivering  products  and/or  services  pursuant  to  these 
specifications  shall  guarantee  that  they  continue  to  meet  specifications  as  set  forth 
herein. If it is determined that materials/equipment and/or services delivered do not meet 
requirements  of  this  specification,  the  successful  Bidder  shall  be  required  to  correct 
same at Bidder’s own expense. 

2.13 Addenda to RFP before Due Date 

If  necessary,  supplemental  information  in  addenda  form  will  be  provided  to  all 
prospective Bidders who have received this RFP from the Nation. All addenda so issued 
shall become part of this RFP for the purpose of amending or supplementing the original 
published  RFP.  Failure  of  any  Bidder  to  receive  such  addenda  shall  not  relieve  the 
Bidder  from  any  obligation  under  their  bid  as  submitted.  All  addenda  so  issued  shall 
become part of this RFP. 

No other forms of amendment or supplementation of this RFP will be considered valid 
or binding. 

RFP: 08102023 EMIHPP 

Page 8 of 21 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 3 - BIDDER QUALIFICATION 

3.1   Minimum Qualifications of Bidders 

The Nation believes that the Bidder’s previous experience, financial capability, expertise 
of  personnel,  and  related  factors  are  important  in  assessing  the  Bidder’s  potential  to 
successfully fulfill the requirements defined in this solicitation. A thorough review of the 
information provided by prospective bidders as outlined in 2.7.1(2) Executive Summary 
Statement will be considered in the proposal evaluation process.  

In addition to the information provided in the Executive Summary Statement, the Nation 
shall  reserve  the  right  to  consider  other  verifiable  information  bearing  on  financial 
stability and strength, including other independent reports or publicly available data.  

Section 4 - Method of Award & Contract Execution 

4.1   Right to Reject Proposals 

It is understood that the Nation reserves the right to accept or reject any and all Proposals 
and to re-solicit for Proposals, as it shall deem to be in the best interests of the Nation. 
Receipt and consideration  of any Proposals shall under no circumstances obligate the 
Nation to accept any Proposals. If an award of contract is made, it shall be made to the 
responsible Bidder whose Proposal is determined to be the best fit for the Nation and will 
be contingent upon the successful negotiation and execution of a contractual agreement. 

The evaluation factors set forth in Paragraph 4.2 - Evaluation of Proposals will be utilized 
by the Nation Evaluation Team to provide a fair and systematic approach to grading each 
proposal. 

4.2  Evaluation of Proposals 

A process for evaluating each proposal supplied in response to this RFP is described in 
the  following  paragraphs.  This  process  outlined  below  will  be  applied  uniformly  and 
consistently to assign a numeric value to each proposal and assist with the process of 
identifying Bidders who will qualify as finalists for the award of a contract resulting from 
this RFP. 

4.2.1   Evaluation Team 

The Nation will appoint an Evaluation Team for the purpose of evaluating all submitted 
Proposals.  This  team  may  include  key  stakeholders,  members  of  management  and 
selected  consultants.  This  Evaluation  Team  will  review  the  SOW  and  evaluate  each 
Proposal submitted. 

4.2.2  Evaluation Criteria 

Submitted proposals will be evaluated on a 100-point system as outlined in the table 
below. 

RFP: 08102023 EMIHPP 

Page 9 of 21 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Category  

Point Assignment  
10  

Meets Fundamental Expectations: Does the vendor meet all the 
Fundamental Expectations?  If not, does the vendor provide alternative 
solutions or a convincing rationale for why they should be the successful 
vendor?  
Staff Experience & Qualifications: Does the proposal supply concrete 
evidence that the vendor and proposed project team, possess the 
relevant experience and background to successfully complete this 
project?  
Previous Performance for (the “Nation”): Has the vendor 
demonstrated excellence in previous work with the Nation?  
Price or Fee: Does the vendor provide a convincing rationale for the 
proposed cost which represents good value for money?  
Related work experience: Does the proposal supply concrete examples 
of prior performance along with at least 3 client references specific to 
work on Oracle Cloud?  
Proposed Approach: Structure – Does the proposal include all the 
required information? Content – Does the proposal present the right 
combination of vision and detail? Are the specific activities, deliverables 
and proposed timeline aligned with the Nations expectations and do they 
seem feasible? Presentation – Has the vendor clearly and compellingly 
described how they will accomplish the work set out in the project? Does 
the writing and overall presentation reflect the vendors comfort and 
expertise in this project area?  
Management and Institutional Resources: Does the proposal indicate 
that the vendor has the capacity to efficiently and successfully complete 
the proposed project? Does the proposal show that the vendor has the 
equipment, resources, and personnel to accomplish the tasks set out by 
this RFP?  
Technical: Does the vendor demonstrate a clear understanding of the 
technical requirements of the project?  
Value Additions: Does the vendor provide additional value outside of the 
base scope? For instance, additional services, consulting, knowledge 
transfer, etc.  
Choctaw Tribal Member Owned Company   
Total  

15  

5  

15  

10  

15  

20  

`5  

5  

5  
105  

4.3   Execution of an Agreement 

The Nation intends to award a single contract for this RFP but reserves the right to award 
multiple contracts to multiple Bidders, if that option is in the best interest of the Nation. 

RFP: 08102023 EMIHPP 

Page 10 of 21 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5 – Additional Terms and Conditions 

5.1 Contractual Requirements 

The  contractual  requirements of  the  Choctaw  Nation  of  Oklahoma  are  detailed  herein.  
Vendors will be expected to meet all of these contractual requirements.  If a vendor cannot 
meet  these  terms  and  conditions,  the  vendor  should  not  submit  a  proposal.    Unless 
otherwise specified in the RFP, the successful proposer agrees to enter into a Contract 
on the form approved by the Nation, which shall include, but not be limited to, the following 
requirements: 

5.2 Governing Law   

The Contract will governed by and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the state of 
Oklahoma without giving effect to its laws or rules relating to conflicts of laws that would 
direct the application of the law of another jurisdiction.  Any claim or controversy arising 
out of the Contract will be settled exclusively by the state courts located in Bryan County, 
Oklahoma.  Nothing contained in the Contract shall be construed to waive the sovereign 
rights of the Nation, its elected officials, directors, officers, employees or agents. 

5.3 Indemnification 

Vendor will  defend, indemnify and hold harmless the Nation,  its subsidiaries, affiliates, 
and their respective elected officials, officers, directors, employees, and agents against 
all claims, demands or liabilities (including reasonable attorneys’ fees) arising out of or 
occurring in connection with Vendors performance under the Contract which result in any: 
(i)  personal  injury  or  death  of  any  person;  (ii)  alleged  infringement  of  any  patents, 
copyrights or trade secrets arising from Vendor’s performance of the Contract,  or from 
the Nation’s use of goods or services provided thereunder; or (iii) damage to or loss of 
property.  Vendor will insure itself against the above claims under its contractual liability 
insurance  coverage,  but  such  insurance  shall  in  no  way  limit  the  scope  of  Vendor’s 
indemnification of the Nation. 

5.4 Insurance   

Consultant shall maintain, during the term of this Agreement, insurance of the types and 
amounts as specified in Exhibit 2 – Insurance Guidelines. 

5.5 Tax Exemption   

The  Nation  may  be  exempt  from  certain  federal,  state  and  local  taxes  for  purchases, 
including  sales  and  use  taxes.  Vendor  shall  not  charge  the  Nation  for  any  taxes  in 
connection  with  the  goods  or  services.    In  the  event  that  any  taxes  should  have  been 
charged  to the Nation, Vendor will consider such  taxes to be included in  the purchase 
price  and  will  deduct  from  the  purchase  price  and  remit  the  applicable  taxes  to  the 
appropriate governing authority. 

RFP: 08102023 EMIHPP 

Page 11 of 21 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.6 Non-Exclusivity  

The Nation reserves the right to purchase from third parties items, equipment, or services 
similar or identical to those provided pursuant to the Contract. 

5.7 Subcontractors   

Vendor may not engage subcontractors to perform any services or provide goods without 
the express written consent of the Nation, which consent may be withheld in the Nation’s 
sole discretion.  Vendor agrees to bind every subcontractor to all the provisions of the 
Contract, including, but not limited to, indemnification and insurance requirements. 

5.8 Incorporation   

All  requirements  of  the  RFP  and  representation  made  in  the  proposal  that  are  not  in 
conflict with the RFP or the Contract shall be incorporated into the Contract.  In the event 
of a conflict between the language of the RFP and the Contract, the language of this RFP 
shall govern except only to the  extent that specific language of the  Contract expressly 
states that it supersedes particular language of the RFP. 

Such additional requirements as may be standard or customary transactions or this type 
or otherwise required by the Nation. 

RFP: 08102023 EMIHPP 

Page 12 of 21 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT 1 
 SCOPE OF WORK 

Project Overview 

The Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma (the Nation) seeks to identify and select a vendor for 
Information Technology (IT) project staff augmentation specific to Oracle Cloud Fusion 
applications. The Nation reserves the right to engage alternative sources in the event 
the awarded vendor is unable to provide specific resources for this project.  

IT is acquiring designated project related staff for the following purposes:  

  Contract with Disengagement upon Completion of Work  

Resources would be expected to contribute to the Nations needs by working on-site at 
the following locations:   

  Durant, Oklahoma  
  Remote opportunities may be available, but at the discretion of the Nation  

IT needs to establish a staffing arrangement with a staffing vendor that can provide job 
candidates of appropriate skills and skill levels within a commuting distance to areas 
indicated above.  As it is difficult to find qualified IT candidates in a timely fashion, IT 
would like to formulate a process where the Nation can work with a specific vendor to 
ensure an adequate pool of staffing resources are available to work with IT Hoshonti 
team depending on areas of focus, competitive pricing, and previous performance.    

Fundamental Expectations 

1.  The  Nation  reserves  the  right  to  award  this  RFP  to  one  or  multiple  vendors  based  on 
business needs and the appropriateness of the vendor for each scope. Each position will 
be evaluated separately. 

a.  Likewise, the vendor may respond to all scopes or those in which they feel most 

suited. 

2.  Awarded  firm(s)  must  provide  a  dedicated  account  manager  that  will  serve  as  a  single 

point of contact for the duration of the relationship.   

a.  Account manager will need to be available during normal business hours, Monday 
thru Friday with the ability to meet in the locations listed above on a quarterly basis 
to discuss the ongoing Customer/Supplier relationship.   

3.  Firm must be able to provide candidates within 2 weeks of request. 
4.  Candidates must pass drug screening conducted by the Firm before performing work at 

the Choctaw Nation. 

a.  Vendor must provide proof of drug screening for submitted candidates. 

5.  Firm must meet insurance requirements for any contractors. 
6.  Contract with disengagement upon completion of work 

a.  Firm  must  be  able  to  provide  contractor  resources  that  will  perform  duties  as 

defined by a Statement of Work with the Nation for a specific period or outcome. 

RFP: 08102023 EMIHPP 

Page 13 of 21 

 
 
  
 
 
 
  
i.  Upon  Completion  of  needed  services  or  outcome,  the  contractor  will  be 

released. 

b.  Rates  for  the  contract  work  of  this  type  will  be  agreed  upon  ahead  of  time  as 
defined by the needs specified within this RFP, by function, and must be agreeable 
to both parties. 

i.  Agreement on tasks and project will be recorded. 

7.  Firm must be able to provide the quantity of resources that specialize and have experience 

as defined in the following scopes. 

Enterprise Performance Management Functional Consultant 

1.  Primary responsibilities:   

a.  Coordinates  with System Analysts  and 

IT  Lead to 

identify  best  practice 

configurations and roadmap opportunities to meet approved requirements;   

b.  Advise team on best practice business processes;   
c.  Advise team on best practice testing and training approaches;   
d.  Assists in product configuration and training where appropriate.     

2.  Areas of expertise:  

a.  Oracle  Cloud  Fusion  Enterprise  Performance  Management  (EPM),  Fusion  ERP 
(Financials)  as  it  relates  to  budgeting,  and  HCM  as  it  relates  to  headcount 
budgeting   

3.  Background  

a.  Bachelor's  degree  in  a  technical  or  business  field  or  equivalent  combination  of 

education, work experience, and certifications.  
b.  Certifications in Oracle EPM Cloud (Budgeting)  
c.  10+ years’ experience implementing Oracle EPM Cloud  
d.  Exceptional interpersonal skills with the ability to develop long-lasting relationships 
with  team  members  and  business  stakeholders  and  manage  high-pressure 
situations.  

e.  Self-motivated individual with demonstrated ability to "dig in" and solve problems 

with minimal background information.  

f.  Excellent  organizational  and  time  management  skills  coupled  with  an  ability  to 

multi-task and prioritize work with little direction.  

g.  Expert understanding of budgeting business functions   

4.  Timing  

a.  12-to-18-month engagement beginning approximately October 2023  

Materials Management TechnoFunctional Consultant 

1.  Primary responsibilities:   

a.  Coordinates with System Analysts and IT Lead to identify best practice 

configurations and roadmap opportunities to meet approved requirements;   

b.  Advise team on best practice business processes;   
c.  Advise team on best practice testing and training approaches;   
d.  Assists in product configuration and training where appropriate.     

2.  Areas of expertise:  

a.  Oracle Cloud Fusion Supply Chain Management (SCM) Purchasing/Inventory 
and ERP as it relates to Materials Management, including but not limited to 
General Ledger (GL), Accounts Payable (AP), and Project Portfolio Management 
(PPM)   

3.  Background  

RFP: 08102023 EMIHPP 

Page 14 of 21 

 
 
 
 
a.  Bachelor's degree in a technical or business field or equivalent combination of 

education, work experience, and certifications.  

b.  Certifications in Oracle SCM Cloud (Purchasing/Inventory) and Oracle ERP 

Cloud (GL/AP)  

c.  10+ years’ experience implementing Oracle SCM Cloud Materials Management, 

preferably in one or more healthcare settings  

d.  Exceptional interpersonal skills with the ability to develop long-lasting 

relationships with team members and business stakeholders and manage high-
pressure situations.  

e.  Self-motivated individual with demonstrated ability to "dig in" and solve problems 

with minimal background information.  

f.  Excellent organizational and time management skills coupled with an ability to 

multi-task and prioritize work with little direction.  

g.  Expert understanding of supply chain management business functions   

4.  Timing  

a.  12-to-18-month engagement beginning approximately October 2023  

Talent Management Functional Consultant 

1.  Primary responsibilities:   

a.  Coordinates with System Analysts and IT Lead to identify best practice 

configurations and roadmap opportunities to meet approved requirements;   

b.  Advise team on best practice business processes;   
c.  Advise team on best practice testing and training approaches;   
d.  Assists in product configuration and training where appropriate.     

2.  Areas of expertise:  

a.  Oracle Cloud Fusion Human Capital Management (HCM) HR/Talent 

Management including but not limited to:  

b.  Oracle Grow  
c.  Career Development  
d.  Succession Planning  
e.  Dynamic Skills  
f.  Oracle Guided Learning  
g.  Digital Assistant  
h.  Oracle Help Desk  

3.  Background  

a.  Bachelor's degree in a technical or business field or equivalent combination of 

education, work experience, and certifications.  

b.  Certifications in Oracle HCM Cloud (Talent)  
c.  Human Resource experience and/or certification.  
d.  10+ years’ experience implementing Oracle HCM Cloud   
e.  Exceptional interpersonal skills with the ability to develop long-lasting 

relationships with team members and business stakeholders and manage high-
pressure situations.  

f.  Self-motivated individual with demonstrated ability to "dig in" and solve problems 

with minimal background information.  

g.  Excellent organizational and time management skills coupled with an ability to 

multi-task and prioritize work with little direction.  

h.  Expert understanding of Human Resource business functions.  

4.  Timing  

a.  12-18 month engagement beginning approximately October 2023. 

RFP: 08102023 EMIHPP 

Page 15 of 21 

 
 
 
Deliverables 

1.  Vendor will provide an overview of the candidate selection and review process. 

a.  How are candidates recruited? 
b.  How/what background checks are performed? 
i.  Financial, Criminal, Work History, etc. 

c.  How/when are candidates tested for drugs? 
d.  How are the candidates’ technical skills verified? 
e.  What  steps  are  used  to  ensure  a  candidate  will  be  a  good  fit  for  a  staff 

augmentation opportunity? 

f.  How will candidates be presented to the Nation? 

2.  Provide an example resource sheet, including a breakdown of all fees for a typical work 

week. 

3.  Describe how contract staff’s time is recorded, tracked and approved by both the vendor 

and the Nation. 

4.  Describe the invoicing process that will be used including: 

a.  Deposits/pre-payments 
b.  Net Terms 
c.  Etc. 

5.  Describe any remediation available if the Nation needs to alter one resource and skillsets 

for another during the engagement. 

6.  Describe the process to move a contracted candidate from contractor status to a potential 

full-time employee of the Nation. 

7.  Provide an overview of the typical pricing structure for staff augmentation on the positions 
as listed and provide pricing options such as hourly rate per role for medium to high level 
experience and a potential monthly rate fee as positions are engaged. 

8.  The vendor must define what sets their company apart from their competition. 
9.  The vendor must provide a proposed contract. 
10. The vendor must address each point of the Scope of Work. 

a.  Vendor must explain any deviations and provide an alternative. 

11. The vendor must identify the account representative and/or primary point of contact. 
12. The vendor must supply three (3) client references for projects that interface with LMS. 
13. The proposal must not include any embedded files. The use of embedded files could 

result in disqualification. 

RFP: 08102023 EMIHPP 

Page 16 of 21 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT – 2 
INSURANCE GUIDELINES 

Insurance 

The  Insurance  Guidelines  below  are  demonstrative  of  the  minimum  level  of  insurance 
that  may  be  required  of  the  successful  Bidder  that  enters  into  an  agreement  with  the 
Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma. 

1. 
Vendor  shall  maintain,  during  the  term  of  this  Agreement,  insurance  of  the  types  and 
amounts as specified in any Statement  of Work.  In the event any Statement of Work  does not 
contain specific insurance requirements, Vendor will carry or cause to be carried and maintained 
in  force  throughout  the  entire  term  of  this  Agreement  insurance  coverages  as  described  in 
paragraphs (a)  through  (c)  below  with  insurance companies  with  an  A.M.  Best  (or comparable 
agency) rating  of  A-  or  better.    The limits  set forth  below  are  minimum  limits  and  will  not be 
construed to limit Vendor’s liability.  All costs and deductible amounts will be for the sole account 
of Vendor. 

a. 

b. 

c. 

Worker’s Compensation insurance coverage in an amount that complies with the 
laws of the state or states having jurisdiction over each employee (whether or not 
Vendor  is  required  by  such  laws  to  maintain  such  insurance),  and  Employer’s 
Liability coverage with limits of $100,000 each accident,  $100,000 disease each 
employee, and $500,000 disease policy limit. 
Commercial or Comprehensive General Liability insurance on an occurrence form 
with a combined single limit of $1,000,000 each occurrence, and annual aggregates 
of  $2,000,000,  for  bodily  injury  and  property  damage,  including  coverage  for 
blanket contractual liability, broad form property damage, personal injury liability, 
independent contractors, products/completed operations, and when applicable the 
explosion, collapse, and underground exclusion will be deleted. 
Automobile  Liability  insurance  with  a  combined  single  limit  of  $500,000  each 
occurrence  for  bodily  injury  and  property  damage  to  include  coverage  for  all 
owned, non-owned, and hired vehicles. 

In each of the above described policies, Vendor agrees to waive and will require its insurers to 
waive  any  rights  of  subrogation  or  recovery  they  may  have  against  the  Nation,  its  parent, 
subsidiary, or affiliated companies.  Under the policies described in (b) and (c) above, the Nation, 
its parent, subsidiary, and affiliated companies will be named as additional insureds as respects 
Vendor’s operations and as  respects any Services performed under this  Agreement.  Any costs 
associated with naming these additional insureds are included in the contract cost.  The policies 
described in (b) and (c) above will be primary  insurance with respect to the Nation, its parent, 
subsidiary and affiliated companies, and any other insurance maintained by the Nation, its parent, 
subsidiary or affiliated companies is excess and not contributory with this insurance.  Non-renewal 
or cancellation of the policies described above will be effective only after written notice is received 
by the Nation from the insurance company thirty (30) days in advance of any such non-renewal or 
cancellation.    Prior  to  commencing  the  Services  hereunder,  Vendor  will  deliver  to  the  Nation 
certificates of insurance on an industry standard form evidencing the existence of the insurance 

RFP: 08102023 EMIHPP 

Page 17 of 21 

 
 
 
 
 
 
coverages required above.  In the event of a loss or claim arising out of or in connection with the 
Services performed under this Agreement, Vendor agrees, upon request of the Nation, to submit 
the original or a certified copy of its insurance policies for inspection by the Nation.  The Nation 
will not insure nor be responsible for any loss or damage, regardless of cause, to property of any 
kind, including loss  of  use  thereof, owned,  leased or  borrowed by  Vendor,  or their employees, 
servants, or agents, other than property which becomes a part of the contract works.  The above 
insurance limits may be achieved by a combination of primary and umbrella/excess policies. 

RFP: 08102023 EMIHPP 

Page 18 of 21 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT - 3 
Customer References 

Provide  three  references  that  represent  vendor  contracts  for  providing  services  with  similar 
requirements, performance, complexity and size, within a period of the past three years. 

Client Name:  _________________________________________________________ 

Client Contact:  _________________________________________________________ 

Phone:  __________________  Email: ____________________________________ 

Contract Award Date:  ____________ 

Term of Contract:  ___________ (Yr/Mo) 

Contract Description:  ___________________________________________________ 

______________________________________________________________________ 

______________________________________________________________________ 

Client Name:  _________________________________________________________ 

Client Contact:  _________________________________________________________ 

Phone:  __________________  Email: ____________________________________ 

Contract Award Date:  ____________ 

Term of Contract:  ___________ (Yr/Mo) 

Contract Description:  ___________________________________________________ 

______________________________________________________________________ 

______________________________________________________________________ 

Client Name:  _________________________________________________________ 

Client Contact:  _________________________________________________________ 

Phone:  __________________  Email: ____________________________________ 

Contract Award Date:  ____________ 

Term of Contract:  ___________ (Yr/Mo) 

Contract Description:  ___________________________________________________ 

______________________________________________________________________ 

______________________________________________________________________ 

The Nation may contact references submitted as part of this proposal. 

RFP: 08102023 EMIHPP 

Page 19 of 21 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT - 4 
Bidder Certification Page 

AUTHORIZED SIGNATURE:  

The proposal must be signed with the full name and address of the Bidder; if a co-
partnership, by a member of the firm with the name and address of each member; if a 
corporation, by an authorized officer thereof in the corporate name. 

Certificate of Current Cost or Pricing Data 

This is to certify that to the best of my knowledge and belief the cost or pricing data submitted 
to the Nation in response to this Request for Proposal is accurate, complete and current as of 
the date of execution of this certificate. If any cost or price furnished is incomplete, inaccurate 
or not current as certified, resulting in an increase of any price, including profit or fee, then 
such price or cost shall be reduced accordingly and the Nation made whole retroactive to the 
commencement date of the contract that may result from this solicitation. 

The below-named individual, submitting and signing this proposal, verifies that he/she is a 
duly authorized officer of the company, and that his/her signature attests that all items and 
conditions contained in this Request for Proposal are understood and accepted. 

DATE 

AUTHORIZED SIGNATURE 

COMPANY NAME 

ADDRESS 

CITY/STATE/ZIP CODE 

PRINTED NAME OF AUTHORIZED SIGNATURE 

PHONE 

RFP: 08102023 EMIHPP 

Page 20 of 21 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT – 5 

Acknowledgement of Method of Award 

Bidder hereby acknowledges that a review and understanding of Section 4 – Method 
of Award and Contract Execution and Section 5 – Additional Terms and Conditions.  

_____________________________________________ (Bidder) has reviewed and 
understands the provisions of Section 4 – Method of Award & Contract Execution and 
Section 5 – Additional Terms & Conditions contained within this RFP. 

___________________________________ 
Printed Name 

___________________________________  
Authorized Signature   

_________________ 
Date 

RFP: 08102023 EMIHPP 

Page 21 of 21 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
